README.md, before:

# Shiny app: plot mi-hd results

This Shiny app allows you to interact with the results in the study ["High-dimensional imputation for the social sciences: a comparison of state-of-the-art methods"](<https://arxiv.org/abs/2208.13656>).

## 1. Installing the Shiny app as an R package

You can install the Shiny app by using one of the methods described below.

### 1.1 Install from GitHub

1. Open an R session.

2. Install `devtools`, an R package that provides a way to install other R packages directly from GitHub. Run the following R command in the console:

    ```
    install.packages("devtools")
    ```

3. Run the following command:

    ```
    devtools::install_github("https://github.com/EdoardoCostantini/plotmihd")
    ```

### 1.2 Install from a local folder

1. Download the package from GitHub or Zendo.

2. Unzip the package.
    
3. Open an R session, and install what is needed.

    First, install dependencies `nFactors` and `shinyWidgets`.

    ```
    install.packages("shinyWidgets")
    install.packages("nFactors")
    ```

    Then, install the Shiny app by running:

    ```
    install.packages(
        "path to the folder containing the package",
        repos = NULL,
        type = "source"
    )
    ```

    For example, on a Windows computer, this could be:

    ```
    install.packages(
        "C:/Users/Name/Downloads/plotmihd-develop/",
        repos = NULL,
        type = "source"
    )
    ```

## 2. Using the Shiny app

To start the shiny apps and interact with the plots, open an R session and load the package:

```
library("plotmihd")
```

Then, run the following command in the R console:

```
start_app()
```

The app interface will explain how to interact with it.

Commit message:

docs: clarify dependency for local install

README.md, after:

# Shiny app: plot mi-hd results

This Shiny app allows you to interact with the results in the study ["High-dimensional imputation for the social sciences: a comparison of state-of-the-art methods"](<https://arxiv.org/abs/2208.13656>).

## 1. Installing the Shiny app as an R package

You can install the Shiny app by using one of the methods described below.

### 1.1 Install from GitHub

1. Open an R session.

2. Install `devtools`, an R package that provides a way to install other R packages directly from GitHub. Run the following R command in the console:

    ```
    install.packages("devtools")
    ```

3. Run the following command:

    ```
    devtools::install_github("https://github.com/EdoardoCostantini/plotmihd")
    ```

### 1.2 Install from a local folder

1. Download the package from GitHub or Zendo.

2. Unzip the package.
    
3. Open an R session, and install what is needed.

    First, install dependencies `nFactors` and `shinyWidgets`.

    ```
    install.packages("shinyWidgets")
    install.packages("nFactors")
    ```

    Then, install the Shiny app by running:

    ```
    install.packages(
        "path to the folder containing the package",
        repos = NULL,
        type = "source"
    )
    ```

    For example, on a Windows computer, this could be:

    ```
    install.packages(
        "C:/Users/Name/Downloads/plotmihd-develop/",
        repos = NULL,
        type = "source"
    )
    ```

    Note: because you are using the `install.packages()` dependencies cannot be automatically installed.
    If you get an error message indicating some dependencies are missing, please install them independently and try again.

## 2. Using the Shiny app

To start the shiny apps and interact with the plots, open an R session and load the package:

```
library("plotmihd")
```

Then, run the following command in the R console:

```
start_app()
```

The app interface will explain how to interact with it.
